In the first exercise,
we learned how to model this simple state
machine using either a switch statement or
by using an object.
And so now we're going to be
taking this to the next level.
And specifically focusing on this object,
and
using this to actually implement a state
machine using the XState library.
And so if you go to xstate.js.org/docs,
this is the XState library.
And the installation and quick start
are all on the homepage over here.
So you could npm install xstate, and then
you create a machine using createMachine.
And you interpret the machine, which
makes a live version of that machine,
which persists state.
And is something like that object we
talked about in the first lesson,
where you could send events to it.
And so when you create a machine,
the object syntax that we put inside of
here is going to look exactly the same,
or at least pretty close,
to what we did in the first lesson.
Now the quickest way to get up and
running with XState is actually
by using the Visualizer.
So if you go to stately.ai/viz,
you're gonna be greeted by this homepage,
where you can see an example or
just start coding right away,
which we're going to do.
And so if I create a machine, I'm actually
going to copy this entire object,
and I'm gonna put it inside
of createMachine over here.
Let's see, const.machine = createMachine.
And so when I press Cmd + Enter,
or if I click Visualize over here,
now you're going to see the state
machine visualized in the visualizer.
And so it's going to look pretty much like
the diagram that we just drew over here.
So we have a loading, playing, paused.
And notice we call this AUDIO.PAUSED,
it could be paused.
And so we could actually navigate
through this machine, and
show how each event is going to
affect the machine's states.
So this is a really useful tool, where you
could just copy and paste your machines,
whether you have it in JavaScript or
TypeScript.
And I definitely encourage
you to try it out.
So, again, if you wanna get started with
XState, you would do npm install xstate.
And we're are going to be
using the createMachine and
interpret functions from XState.
And so, yeah, just gonna show
you how that works real quick.
We're gonna be jumping
into exercise number one,
just to show you how all of this works.
And actually,
exercise one is all ready done, so yeah.
But if you wanna do it yourself,
then please feel free.
What should really happen over here is
like this should be empty, so yeah.
Okay, so for this exercise,
what you're supposed to
do is create a machine
using XState that matches
the state machine
that you created in the previous exercise.
So just to give you a quick intro on that,
I'm gonna jump into
the scratchpad over here.
And let's clear some stuff out.
All right, so we're going to import
a couple things from Xstate,
gonna import createMachine and
also the interpret function.
For now we're just gonna
be using createMachine.
And so we're gonna be creating a machine
using createMachine, saying that a lot.
And this machine, the object inside
actually doesn't need to take anything.
This is a perfectly valid state machine,
even though it's completely empty.
So if we console.log
the machine.initialState,
you're going to discover what exactly
is in that state objects that we have.
So the initial state is created by,
let's have initial state of loading,
so states, loading.
All right, so our initial state is
going to have a few important things.
First of all is the value,
just like we talked about,
this value over here of loading.
And so this represents
the finite state of the machine.
There's also going to be
an event over here, and
that represents the events that
caused the transition to this state.
In this case it's just an xstate.init
event, which is an internal event.
And there's also going to be context,
which we're gonna be taking
care of in a future lesson.
But for now this value is
the important part.
And yeah, so when we have this
machine inside createMachine,
we actually have the transition
function built into this machine.
So we could say const nextState
= machine.transition.
And so just like we did before,
we could specify undefined as the first
argument, and we could give it an event.
So let's say that we have two states,
loading and loaded.
So we say on LOADED: 'loaded',
that's actually pretty redundant.
Let's call it SUCCESS just for
the sake of this example.
And so we're gonna send type: 'SUCCESS'.
And we're going to
console.log the nextState.
All right, so now we see that we
have a state with value of loading.
And when we send that event,
now we have a state with value of loaded.
So we see the event in the state object,
and
we see the value of loaded
also within that state object.
Now this state object has a couple
of other features as well.
So one feature that's going to be
useful in our application is matches.
So if I say console.log(nextState.matches,
and we say loaded, this should be true.
And so
this gives us an easy way to match and
make sure that we're in
the expected finite state.
So we have true over here.
If we have something else,
then it's going to be false.
So you can use nextState.matches.
Just like we did before
in the first lesson,
we created this sort of object that
lets us send events to the machine and
also we have a way to persist the state.
There is a built in way to do
that in XState as well, and
that's by using the interpret function.
And so instead of this, we're gonna
be creating what's called a service.
And again, this is just convention.
But this service is going to take
that machine that we created,
and we have to call start in
order to start the service, and
say, I'm ready to accept events.
Now, we could listen to events on
the service by calling service.subscribe.
And we are going to
console.log the state.value.
And we're also going to expose
the service on the window,
so window.service = service = service.
All right, so
right now the service immediately told
us that we're in the loading state.
So if I send type: 'SUCCESS',
we called it,
now it's gonna tell us that we're in
the loaded state, just as we expected.
So now we see that everything
is working and it's all good.
So interpreting the machine to create
these services is really useful.
And you could use this essentially as
an event emitter in your application.
And it becomes something that you
could send events to, subscribe to.
And those two things alone
are really powerful, and
it's what's going to drive
the entire media player application.